---
title: "John 19:28-30"
categories:
- devotion
---
> Later; knowing that everything had now been finished, and so that Scripture would be fulfilled, Jesus said, "I am thirsty." A jar of wine vinegar was there, so they soaked a sponge in it, put the sponge on a stalk of the hyssop plant, and lifted it to Jesus' lips. When he had received the drink, Jesus said, "It is finished." With that, he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. ~ John 19:28-30  
  
The end is quickly approaching. Jesus is dying on the cross. A crowd has gathered to witness this gruesome moment, not realizing they are witnessing the most significant event in all of history. Jesus cries out he is thirsty. He is given a wine vinegar from a sponge. He receives the drink then he says, "It is finished." It is done. The lamb slain from the foundation of the world has given his life. Completed the assignment given him.

It is interesting to note that the term for the phrase, "It is finished." Is a perfect passive indicative. In Biblical Greek there are two ways to express past tense, the aorist and the perfect. The aorist is a one-time event. It is done. It is over. The perfect tense has a slightly different expression of a past event. It happens but it has consequences. Machen in his Greek grammar says, "it has abiding results." Sort of like throwing a rock into a pond. It splashes then there are ripples that extend to the edge of the pond.

It is important to note that the phrase simply means it is finished. Done. Complete. But the consequences of this moment are so profound it has abiding results extending into eternity and even beyond eternity. The crucifixion is a moment of time with ripples that extend to eternity. Theologian Buzz Lightyear had it right when he said, "To infinity and beyond."

I would simply note the consequences of that moment have been extended to me and my family. I am eternally grateful. To see his mercy and grace offered to me day after day, is significant. Humbling. Overwhelming. I would like to figure out ways to see others come into this same awareness. In Jesus name amen.