---
title: "Ezekiel 34:2-6"
categories:
- devotion
---
> I saw heaven standing open and there before me was a white horse, whose rider is called Faithful and True. With justice he judges and wages war. His eyes are like blazing fire, and on his head are many crowns. He has a name written on him that no one knows but he himself. He is dressed in a robe dipped in blood, and his name is the Word of God. The armies of heaven were following him, riding on white horses and dressed in fine linen, white and clean. Coming out of his mouth is a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations. "He will rule them with an iron scepter." He treads the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God Almighty.** On his robe and on his thigh he has this name written: 
> 
> king of kings and lord of lords.
> ~ Revelation 19:11-16
* * *
John is recording for all of humanity and those who will read and listen and understand these words and how this all ends. But it is not really the end, it is simply a new beginning. From the first word of creation the end was in mind. It seems to me that God wants a creation who has this gift of free-will to use their free-will and their choice to honor Him with their lives.

Notice also the contrast of the one riding the white horse. The first time he came to earth he was simply a baby born in Bethlehem in the humble surroundings of a manger. He was visited by sheep, shepherds, and some wise men from the east. His cries were heard throughout the village. But now he comes riding a white horse. -- Just a small side note: if there are horses in heaven are there other animals as well? Say dogs. And maybe some cats? And maybe some other beloved animals as well? Just asking. Inquiring minds want to know.

Back to my observations. Jesus is returning. He is returning with the armies of heaven. He is settling the issue of Sovereignty once and for all. He is correcting the injustices, any ambiguities and taking his rightful place as King of King and Lord of Lord for the rest of eternity. Handel in his musical piece had it right "and he shall reign forever and ever. Hallelujah!" Amen.

Lord Jesus, I bow in worship to you. The King. The One. Sovereign. Holy. Just. Pure. Full of love, mercy and grace. You are the ruler of my heart, my mind, my soul. You reign. Amen!