---
layout: post
title: "Some thoughts for a new year"
description: "Jesus is teaching his disciples about giving. Generosity. He is watching people place their offerings in the treasury. Several people have already placed their offerings. Some are making large amounts."
categories:
- devotion
feature_image: "/images/matt-hoffman-8-wQr3cTVgo-unsplash.jpg"
---
> Jesus sat down opposite the place where the offerings were put and watched the crowd putting their money into the temple treasury. Many rich people threw in large amounts.But a poor widow came and put in two very small copper coins, worth only a few cents.
>  
> Calling his disciples to him, Jesus said, “Truly I tell you, this poor widow has put more into the treasury than all the others.They all gave out of their wealth; but she, out of her poverty, put in everything—all she had to live on.”  
> ~ Mark 12:41-44

Jesus is teaching his disciples about giving. Generosity. He is watching people place their offerings in the treasury. Several people have already placed their offerings. Some are making large amounts. In all probability when they do there are the appropriate, "Whoa. Ahhs" from the crowd. Maybe even a few whispers as to the size of the gift. Attention is made to the gift. While Jesus watches a widow approaches the area. She puts in only a few cents.

Jesus turns to the disciples and calls the attention to all the gifts given. He gives special attention to the magnitude of the gift of the widow. Jesus tells his listeners that the gift of the widow exceeded "*all the others*."  The rich gave out of their abundance. The widow gave out of her heart. She gave her all. The others just gave a portion.

It is important to note here that this story is beyond just giving. It is about worship. Who you worship and why you worship. The widow worshipped with her whole heart. Without reservation. Wholeheartedly. Without reservation. Her humble act of worship is inspiring.

As we approach 2024 I want to approach it with my heart sold out to God. Wholeheartedly. Without reservation. All in. In Jesus name amen.

* * *

Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@__matthoffman__?utm_content=creditCopyText&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=unsplash">Matt Hoffman</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/photos/a-piece-of-brown-paper-with-the-words-happy-new-year-written-on-it-8-wQr3cTVgo?utm_content=creditCopyText&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=unsplash">Unsplash</a>
  