---
title: "Why do you dance?"
categories:
- devotion
---
<blockquote>
*Sing to the LORD, all the earth; proclaim his salvation day after day. Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous deeds among all peoples. For great is the LORD and most worthy of praise; he is to be feared above all gods.*

*For all the gods of the nations are idols, but the LORD made the heavens. Splendor and majesty are before him; strength and joy are in his dwelling place.*

*Ascribe to the LORD, all you families of nations, ascribe to the LORD glory and strength. *

 *Ascribe to the LORD the glory due his name; bring an offering and come before him.*

*Worship the LORD in the splendor of his holiness.*

*Tremble before him, all the earth! The world is firmly established; it cannot be moved. Let the heavens rejoice, let the earth be glad; let them say among the nations, "The LORD reigns!"* 
[**1 Chronicles 16:23-31**](https://www.biblestudytools.com/1-chronicles/passage/?q=1+chronicles+16:23-31)
</blockquote>

* * *

Why do you dance?

Years ago, a world class dancer completed a magnificent performance. The audience was captivated by her magnificent presentation. They were spell bound. When she finished there was this hush. Silence permeated the auditorium. But then the applause began, it became a standing ovation.

Later she was interviewed by a local television station. During the conversation the interviewer asked, "What does this particular dance mean to you?" The dancer thought for moment and responded, "If I could explain it, I wouldn't have to dance."

To me worship is sometimes like that. It is something that defies words and explanation. It is the language of the soul. At times in worship, you have no words. Now words and lyrics are part of worship. They give descriptors to feelings and emotions. Values and perceptions. Words frame my thoughts, and the intents of my heart. But there are times when words are not enough.

At times in worship all you can do is lift your hands and your eyes to the heavens and whisper one word -- thanks. Thank you. Sometimes the word doesn't come because it feels so inadequate to express what's happening in life.

It is interesting to me that there are times during heartache, pain, and suffering, the desire to worship feels so far away. But it is in those times you choose to worship. You choose to acknowledge God is still on his throne. Jesus is still risen from the grave and that he is victorious. That all things do work together for good because you love him, and you've been called according to his purpose and not someone else's. You get to choose in those times to worship. To be grateful. To extend an attitude of thankfulness. And in reality, those are the times of the highest forms of worship. You worship in the midst of adversity. You choose to worship not because everything is going your way, but because things aren't going your way, so that despite the circumstances, despite life on life's terms. And you choose to acknowledge the greatness and the love of God. That is why I worship. In Jesus name amen.