---
title: "A Word on Humility"
categories:
- devotion
---
> Carry each other’s burdens, and in this way you will fulfill the law of Christ. If anyone thinks they are something when they are not, they deceive themselves. Each one should test their own actions. Then they can take pride in themselves alone, without comparing themselves to someone else, for each one should carry their own load. ~Galatians 6:2-5

The letter to the Galatians is a letter of warning to the churches in the area. Paul is very vocal about the clear and present danger of going back and departing from their new found faith. Chapter 6 he is closing his letter. He goes pastoral in his admonition. He tells them, “Carry each other’s burdens, and in this way you will fulfill the law of Christ.” What is the law of Christ? It is the law of love.

It is interesting to me that in our culture love is discussed as an abstract. It is an intangible reality that slips into your life when you are least aware of it. It is love at first sight. Love is a feeling an intense emotion. That is how love is portrayed in movies, YouTube videos, and other contemporary writings. But notice love described in the Scriptures. It is defined by actions. By choices. “God so loved he gave.” “We love so we obey.”  When God loves, he does not act to acquire or to accumulate he gives of himself. “While we were yet sinners…” God loved us. He loves us and offers redemption while we are unworthy. It is a love offered to those who cannot earn it or deserve it. God’s love does not seek value. God’s love creates value and gives value. God’s love does not get but exists to give. And it is this love that transforms us from the inside out. That is why we should not think of ourselves more highly than we ought. We deceive ourselves and we profane the love of God within us when we do. God’s love is sacred. And holy. And revered.

When God’s love lives within us. You must act like God acted. It is part of the power of his love within us. When God’s love lives within you do what he did. How can you do otherwise? You are generous. You are encouraging. You even quit comparing yourself to others because you see them with a new set of eyes. Eyes of love. When God’s love is within it is impossible to do what even God could not do and that is withhold his love.

Lord Jesus thank you for your love for me. It is really quite startling that you would love us the way you do. Sometimes I don’t even love myself and yet you do. That is really awesome that you would love like that. So, thank you for that. And thank you for not giving up on me. I give you this day. In Jesus name amen.