---
title: "I believe in the church"
categories:
- devotion
---
> *I tell you that you are Peter, and on this rock, I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not overcome it. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven; whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven."* ~ Matthew 16:18-20

I believe in the church. I believe in its mission. Its purpose. Its plan to change the world. I have seen the church at its best in reaching people and changing lives. Transforming people. Reconciling people to God. Bringing marriages and families back to one another. Healing the broken heart. Setting people free from hurts, habits and hangups that imprisoned folks. I have seen what the gospel can do when it is embraced and lived out.

It is sad to note though that I have seen the other side of the church. The not so glamorous. The dysfunctional side. I have seen the hurt that can occur through people who claim to be followers of Christ, but don't act that way.

As a pastor I have had people tell me that they were leaving the church because of the way they were treated. Some leave to find a NT style church. Whatever that may be. Some leave church because "they aren't being fed." Some leave church because they don't like the music, the Bible version used, and any number of other reasons. I must remind myself that the church is filled with imperfect people. Who are at different phases and stages in their spiritual maturity. And the church is led be imperfect people. Of whom I am a living example. Pastors and church leaders are also at different phases and stages in their spiritual journey. But we follow a perfect savior. Who gave his life for us. Who quite literally stepped outside of his privileges, and laid aside his rights, to give his life as a ransom for us. He did it because he loves us. All of us. Even those who don't know him -- yet. We can't judge the church based on some of the actions of others.

Think of the church this way. Imagine with me that a young man heads off to college. Within his first weeks of college -- he meets her. The one. Her beauty. Her brilliance. Sweeps him off his feet. He begins to arrange his schedule to "accidently" be at the same place and same time that she is. He happens to be in the hallway when she gets out of Western Civ. He happens to be walking to the cafeteria when she goes to lunch.

He eventually gets the courage and asks her out -- just for coffee at the off-campus Starbucks. She says yes. They get there and she orders her coffee. He memorized her drink order for future reference. It isn't long before they are dating. He can't believe it. Then the miraculous happens he finds out that she likes him as much as he likes her. As a matter of fact, she invites him to the upcoming family reunion.

He goes and he meets the family at the annual reunion. He can't believe it. Her family is nothing like her. They are a rather contentious group. She has two uncles arguing politics. Some of the cousins have music blaring with unrepeatable lyrics. A couple of the guys standing around the barbeque are telling inappropriate jokes. He can't believe it. He tells his girlfriend that he feels a migraine coming on and leaves. He has never met such a difficult, and troublesome, group of people.

After the reunion he meets up with his girlfriend. He tells her that they need to talk. He explains to her that if their relationship is going anywhere, it won't be with her family. If they get married, she should plan on never seeing her family again. She looks at him and tells him that's her family. If he wants to marry her, the family is an important part of her life.  She knows they're a difficult bunch. But she loves them. He can't believe his ears. He asks her for a couple of days to think about it. It was the worst couple of days of his life. He can't live without her. He goes. He finds her. He sits down with her and asks her to marry him -- family and all.

Church is like family. There  are some you connect with and respect and they help you grow spiritually. Then there are others and you wonder. How can you be a follower of Jesus and be so cantankerous? But if you are willing and patient they can help you grow as well. 

I would note that the gospel is more than just having the right belief system. The most correct doctrine. I would say those things are important and critical. What is more critical though -- is how we treat the people. How we treat other family members. Some of whom you may not get along with. Some of whom disagree with you. We cannot afford to forget this about Jesus. Before he offered a "fix" for the situation of humanity. He entered into it -- the family of humanity. He lived in it. He loved us. He modeled for us how then we ought to live in the family. And then he offered his life as a ransom for us -- so that we may become part of the family of God. "While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us." -- Romans 5:8

He loved us that much. As quarrelsome, hostile, and disputatious some people can be in church, he hasn't given up on them. He extends them mercy and grace. How can we do anything less? I enjoy woodworking. Do you know what happens when you rub two pieces of sandpaper together? They both get smoother. Maybe that is what God is doing. Working in both of our lives, especially mine.

In closing I would make this one simple observation. God instituted the church. Jesus gave his life for the church. The body of believers. This family. There is no plan B. There is no -- if that doesn't work, well then, we'll do this and see if that works. No. The church is it. God wants it that way. He planned for it to be a safe place. A healing place. A place of encouragement. Of community. A family for those of us who are followers of Jesus. We need to figure out how to make it happen. To get back to the place God intended for us. A place we once were.

GK Chesterton, a famous Catholic author, philosopher and theologian, once read  a newspaper editorial entitled, "What is wrong with the world today?" He responded back to the editor who wrote the article these words, "Dear Sir, I am." GK Chesterton. When I think about what is wrong with the church today? I have to start with me. It starts with my attitude. My point of view. I need to clothe myself in humility. I need to listen. Listen carefully to those who may disagree with me. And I may disagree with them. But I need to be gentle and respectful in all my words and actions.

The psalmist states it this way, and now Lord "Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in Your sight, O Lord, my Rock and my Redeemer." -- Psalm 19:14 I believe in the church. In Jesus name. Amen.